---
layout: post
title: Kops
---

{{ page.title }}
================

<p class="meta">7 Jan 2019 - Brisbane</p>

I've ben watching the [kops][kops] project for a year and they just released [version 1.11.0][version-1.11.0] where kops will attempt to remove NLBs that are tagged as created by the cluster so I thought it as good a time as any to run it up again.

Kops stands for Kubernetes Operations - a Production Grade K8s Installation with Upgrades and Management. I tested out with AWS support using [example.reecedenne.com][example.reecedenne.com] and it worked well.

`$ kubectl cluster-info`

``Kubernetes master is running at https://api.example.reecedenne.com
KubeDNS is running at https://api.example.reecedenne.com/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy``

Initially the cluster defaults launch you with one m3.medium Master node and two t2.medium Nodes. I wanted to change these t2's to t3s so I ran:

`$ kops edit ig nodes`

Update to t3.medium nodes and then ran:

`$ kops update cluster example.reecedenne.com`

You will get an output of what will change; in my example:

``Will modify resources:
  LaunchConfiguration/nodes.example.reecedenne.com
  	InstanceType        	 t2.medium -> t3.medium``

Adding the `--yes` flag will update the cluster. This will create a new Launch Template for the Node Auto Scaling Group with the updated Instance Type. The old Instance Types will still be in use for the current nodes and you will need to run `kops rolling-update cluster` to check the rolling update and with a `--yes` to confirm. This will drain the nodes one by one. For more information see: [kops rolling-update cluster][kops-rolling-update-cluster].

That will take a bit of time.

Once complete I now have two t3.medium Nodes and one m3.medium Master.

`$ kops get ig`

    NAME			ROLE	MACHINETYPE	MIN	MAX	ZONES
    master-ap-southeast-2c	Master	m3.medium	1	1	ap-southeast-2c
    nodes			Node	t3.medium	2	2	ap-southeast-2c

I want to change that Master so it's a t3.small as well, and I want it split across three subnets in three Availability Zones (AZs). Update the IG Master to a t3.small and then start down the process of moving from [single to multi-master][single-to-multi-master].

[kops]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kops
[version-1.11.0]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/releases/tag/1.11.0
[example.reecedenne.com]: example.reecedenne.com
[kops-rolling-update-cluster]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/blob/master/docs/cli/kops_rolling-update.md
[single-to-multi-master]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/blob/master/docs/single-to-multi-master.md